docs/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
---

This is a small project I created to help me understand solo play better using the **[F.O.R.G.E.](https://zap-forge.itch.io/forge)** (*Fantasy Open Roleplaying Game Engine*) system and have a quick and easy sheet to reference when playing.

The sheets come in PDF format of A4 size in two pages. They should be printed two-sided. Make sure when printing you select the options "Fit to printable areas" and for best quality select 600 dpi, not 300 dpi.

# Overland Traversal

This sheet features a hex map with all the information needed to generate tiles. On the reverse side are tables to all the generation tables you will require for play with references to the pages found in the book.

[![Overland Preview Thumbnail](https://github.com/andrewfenn/forge-one-sheet-solo/blob/main/docs/overland-prev-1.png?raw=true)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/andrewfenn/forge-one-sheet-solo/refs/heads/main/FORGE%20-%20Single%20Sheet%20Overland.pdf) [![Overland Preview Thumbnail](https://github.com/andrewfenn/forge-one-sheet-solo/blob/main/docs/overland-prev-2.png?raw=true)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/andrewfenn/forge-one-sheet-solo/refs/heads/main/FORGE%20-%20Single%20Sheet%20Overland.pdf)

#### Starting a Game  
To begin, roll a six-sided die **_(d6)_** or choose a wilderness type:  
- **Plains**  
- **Hills**  
- **Forest**  
- **Swamp**  
- **Desert**  
- **Mountain**  

#### Generating Hex Tiles  
To generate a new hex tile, will roll two six sided die, and add the result together **_(2d6)_**. Use the table to determine the terrain type based on the adjacent starting tile.  

For additional details, roll a **_d6_** to determine any water, plant, or land features. The table on this sheet provides options, but you can refer to the rulebook for more variety.  

#### Environmental & Travel Checks  
Once you've generated a tile and its features, proceed to:
- **Bottom-left section**: Roll for weather
- **Encounter Checks (the next table over)**:
  - *Danger or Discovery* then roll for what it is using the tables spanning vertically down the left of the page
  - *Roll risk* requires a **_d6_** roll—check using the table to the left of encounter checks
  - *Discovery when searching* occurs only if the party actively searches.

An encounter check is rolled once a day whilst travelling, once for every foraging or hex search attempt, and once per night if resting.

### License

All materials in this work are licensed under the same terms as **F.O.R.G.E.**—the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (CC BY 4.0)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

**F.O.R.G.E.** (*Fantasy Open Roleplaying Game Engine*) is a roleplaying game created and published by **Oliver Fradgley**. This work incorporates materials from **F.O.R.G.E.** in accordance with its licensing terms.

Commit message:

Added info on how to edit

docs/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
---

This is a small project I created to help me understand solo play better using the **[F.O.R.G.E.](https://zap-forge.itch.io/forge)** (*Fantasy Open Roleplaying Game Engine*) system and have a quick and easy sheet to reference when playing.

The sheets come in PDF format of A4 size in two pages. They should be printed two-sided. Make sure when printing you select the options "Fit to printable areas" and for best quality select 600 dpi, not 300 dpi.

# Overland Traversal

This sheet features a hex map with all the information needed to generate tiles. On the reverse side are tables to all the generation tables you will require for play with references to the pages found in the book.

[![Overland Preview Thumbnail](https://github.com/andrewfenn/forge-one-sheet-solo/blob/main/docs/overland-prev-1.png?raw=true)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/andrewfenn/forge-one-sheet-solo/refs/heads/main/FORGE%20-%20Single%20Sheet%20Overland.pdf) [![Overland Preview Thumbnail](https://github.com/andrewfenn/forge-one-sheet-solo/blob/main/docs/overland-prev-2.png?raw=true)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/andrewfenn/forge-one-sheet-solo/refs/heads/main/FORGE%20-%20Single%20Sheet%20Overland.pdf)

#### Starting a Game  
To begin, roll a six-sided die **_(d6)_** or choose a wilderness type:  
- **Plains**  
- **Hills**  
- **Forest**  
- **Swamp**  
- **Desert**  
- **Mountain**  

#### Generating Hex Tiles  
To generate a new hex tile, will roll two six sided die, and add the result together **_(2d6)_**. Use the table to determine the terrain type based on the adjacent starting tile.  

For additional details, roll a **_d6_** to determine any water, plant, or land features. The table on this sheet provides options, but you can refer to the rulebook for more variety.  

#### Environmental & Travel Checks  
Once you've generated a tile and its features, proceed to:
- **Bottom-left section**: Roll for weather
- **Encounter Checks (the next table over)**:
  - *Danger or Discovery* then roll for what it is using the tables spanning vertically down the left of the page
  - *Roll risk* requires a **_d6_** roll—check using the table to the left of encounter checks
  - *Discovery when searching* occurs only if the party actively searches.

An encounter check is rolled once a day whilst travelling, once for every foraging or hex search attempt, and once per night if resting.

### Source files

The source files to edit the PDF are available on [Github](https://github.com/andrewfenn/forge-one-sheet-solo). They were created in a program called [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/) that can be downloaded and used for free.

### License

All materials in this work are licensed under the same terms as **F.O.R.G.E.**—the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (CC BY 4.0)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

**F.O.R.G.E.** (*Fantasy Open Roleplaying Game Engine*) is a roleplaying game created and published by **Oliver Fradgley**. This work incorporates materials from **F.O.R.G.E.** in accordance with its licensing terms.
